# Request Response Cycle, APIs, and Postman Lab

You will be working with a free API of your choice for this lab.

## Getting Started

1. Choose an API with no auth and no CORS from the following list. It _should not_ be one that you've already seen or worked on in class.
   - [Public APIs](https://github.com/public-apis/public-apis)
1. Choose an API not covered in your readings, class, or other assignments. The API should be new to you.
1. Write your answers in this README.md file. Do not delete the questions. Write your answers after the `>`. If you need to write more than one paragraph, add more `>`.
1. Take the time to read back the work, and edit what you've written so that your answers are clear and anyone reading it can easily understand what you've written.

## Instructions

Do your best to answer the questions with specific details. Writing about code clearly and thoroughly is a critical skill to practice.

- Which one did you choose? Provide the name and base URL.

> Random-D.uk API (V2)
> https://random-d.uk/api/v2

- What is the purpose of this API? Describe what data the API provides and why someone might want to use it.

> The purpose of this API is to provide random images that allowd me to request either GIF or JPG. Could be used for comedic purposes

- What is the URL of the documentation?

> https://random-d.uk/api

### Response

For the following questions, choose a single endpoint to request within Postman.

- What is the full URL of the endpoint?

> https://random-d.uk/api/v2/random

- What response do you receive when you make a request to that endpoint? Be sure to wrap your answer in the correct formatting for JSON.

```json

{
  "message": "Powered by random-d.uk",
    "url": "https://random-d.uk/api/254.jpg"
}

```

- What status code did you get back from your request? Why did you receive this status code?

> 200 OK. This indicates a successful HTTP request

- Click on the **response** headers in Postman. What are the `Content-Type` and `Content-Length` (provide exact values)?

> `Content-Type`: JPG

> `Content-Length`: N/A

- Summarize the most salient parts of the data you are getting back. How would you describe what is included within the response?

> There was a url with a link to a random image as well as a message that was generated by the developer of the api

- Identify at least two ways to use the data within a web application.

> I could integrate this API into an app that shows random images on a websites homepage. Another way to integrate this would be utiliaing the random images for a website once a user types in an error or tries to access a page that no longer exists.

### Documentation

The following questions relate to the documentation of the API.

- What did you like about the documentation? Cite specific examples.

> I liked how the documentation provided clear info about the different endpoints like GET/random

- What did you find challenging about the documentation? Cite specific examples.

> One of the more challenging things was that there wasn't any documentation on potential error responses and how to hamdle them. I also wish there were more examples on dow to structure requests with query parameters

- Did the quality of the documentation impact your decision to use it?

> No because I want to use an API that I thought was simple enough.

- Did you switch which API you chose initially because of its documentation, or did you stick with the one you selected and work your way through it?

> No I stuck with this API and worked through the documentation.

### Definitions

The following questions require you to define some concepts and terms. Provide detailed explanations.

- In your own words, summarize the request-response cycle.

> The request-response cycle is a sequence of events that occur when a client sends a request to a server, and the server responds to that request. It involved the client initiating a request, the server processing the request, and then sending back a response to the client.

- In your own words, describe what an API is.

> An API is a set of rules and protocals that allows a software application to interact with another.

- In your own words, describe the purpose of Postman.

> Postman simplifies the process of developing, testing, and documenting API's.
